I bow to all the seekers of truth.
The truth can be realized
if you love someone.
But it should be pure love,
without any lust and greed
which is a Divine love.
Divine love doesn't expect anything.
You cannot sell it,
you cannot force it on anyone.
It is the purity
of your being, that starts emitting that love.
For example there's a lamp, which is dirty,
and even if you put a light inside that
it won't give any light at all.
So the first process that starts in you
of the awakening of the Kundalini
gives you the feeling of the All-pervading power
and also gives you a kind of a peace within and a security.
But above all you develop
a new awareness called as collective consciousness.
This new consciousness is where
you can feel another person on your finger tips
and you start emitting yourself
in vibrations of Divine Love.
But these vibrations are very dim in the beginning.
The Kundalini comes, again falls down,
again attends to the problems in the being.
The problems could be physical,
could be mental, could be emotional.
But the main problem is the spiritual problem
which is very difficult to eradicate.
But as you start seeing your own problems and blockades
and feeling on, feeling them on your fingertips,
you yourself correct your own being
as if you have become your own guide and your own master.
In your own light you start seeing what's wrong with you.
I don't have to tell you that this is wrong, that is wrong.
You yourself correct yourself.
When this process starts of cleansing the purity improves within.
That is your attention becomes very pure.
When you look at something as I told you yesterday
there's no thought that comes into your mind,
but you become a witness.
But it's not only that.
In collective consciousness
when you look at something, you pay attention to something,
it gets purified.
That's why Christ has said "Thou shalt not have adulterous eyes."
That means in your eyes there should not be any lust or greed.
When you look at people
then there should not be any lust
or feeling of greed but just you look at them
and the purity of your eyes is purifying them.
You all are capable of becoming that kind of a strong personality,
the light of Spirit, now enlightened within you.
Spirit first of all gives you the truth,
the absolute,
because the Spirit is absolute.
It gives you the absolute truth into such an extent
that even if you have ten children and tie up their eyes
and ask them "What's wrong with this person?"
they will all raise this finger,
means this finger is burning.
That means that that person is suffering from guilt.
That means this is the center which is catching, here.
So much is the absoluteness of the truth is.
That means our brain captures the absolute truth.
Now, our attention becomes collectively conscious as I told you.
Like we see the television,
the play is going on somewhere in the central place,
and we see the television.
So, say I am sitting here and My attention has gone somewhere else
to some person, maybe to some problem to anything.
But it's not like television, it's more than that,
because this acts through the subtle of the ether,
that when this attention goes to the other end, it acts.
It works, it organizes, it sends information everywhere
and the whole cosmos works it out.
And then the action takes place, instantaneously.
And you are amazed how it works.
You might say it's a miracle
but everything that is Divine is miraculous to human beings.
It acts in so many ways.
There was - there are so many stories,
Sahaja Yogis will be able to tell you about the miracles.
So this attention has got vibrations in it.
These vibrations are the ones which
themselves are knowledgeable.
They have the knowledge
and they know what to do
and they are connected with the whole.
So the message from them goes into the cosmos
and it's such a beautiful, efficient
machine, we can say - it's not a good word though,
of energy that
it acts instantaneously in the proper way.
Some people ask Me, "Mother if these powers come into us,
we can use it for wrong things."
You cannot. If you try, your vibrations will stop.
If somebody falsely says that
"I am a Sahaja Yogi. I have this power",  is not accepted.
He talks about something like that, it is of no avail.
As you cannot force Sahaja Yoga or anyone
you cannot force yourself upon us.
And we don't want dishonest hypocritical people.
You have to become the genuine, the pure,
otherwise how will you emit these vibrations.
You are the one who has to do this new revolution.
For any other revolution people had to sacrifice,
had to die, there were massacres
but in Sahaja Yoga you are blessed all the time, blessed.
And you have to just count your blessings one by one.
You are all the time blessed,
all the time you are given support and help and security.
Every moment you have the sensation of tremendous joy
and enormous confidence in your righteousness and virtues.
But as we are coming from the crowds
suddenly we cannot accept, to be on a hill-top watching the crowds.
Because in modern times we live in Hell.
Like our one foot is in the mouth of a crocodile
and here you are pulled into a boat,
but if you want to be on the crocodile, or in the crocodile's mouth,
nobody can help you.
If you want to put back your foot into it what can anybody do?
If you like that way, nobody can force you.
But once you start enjoying yourself,
enjoying the bliss of Divine
then seldom you want to go back to the crocodile.
The conditioning in human beings sometimes can be very strong.
Specially the conditioning of the ego is horrible.
Like to say, "I don't like this, I like this".
or, "I hate this, I love this."
When you say that 'I' where is this 'I?'
You have not known yourself so far.
When you become yourself, you'll never say like that,
because you do not react in that manner.
You just watch and see,
absorb whatever is good and discard whatever is bad.
But this discretion has to be established.
As there are two energies within us as told by him
on the left and the right,
we have a tendency to go towards the left or towards the right,
and go to the extremes.
In France I think is people want to go to the left all the time.
That is they follow people like Egyptians who think of their death
and miserable and unhappy, this that.
Such people take to self-destruction.
They do not destroy others
but in self-destruction they can  do things
which they know are bad but will go on doing it.
I don't want to say all of them otherwise
may be half of you might go away.
As you know too much drinking, smoking, you know it's bad for you.
You see a person coming out of a pub and fainting
and you want to go in the same pub
to get the same feeling of fainting.
But nobody dare say "Don't drink".
It's sinful.
Now, when you get your Realization I don't have to tell you.
You become so powerful
that you decide for yourself and you never try to destroy yourself.
Overnight people have given up drugs,
overnight people have given up bad habits.
All kinds of nonsensical habits they have given up
because now they have become the Spirit.
They see themselves
The left-side is very dangerous in a way.
Beyond the left side resides your subconscious,
then resides the subconscious of your previous lives
and beyond that resides the collective subconscious.
Beyond that resides all that is gone out of
the evolutionary process.
From there comes the triggering of all these diseases like cancer,
like myelitis - all these muscular disabilities,
muscular dissipation,disability,
then impotency,
AIDS,
madness, lunacy, epilepsy,
all psychosomatic diseases,
all psychological diseases.
That is the psyche on the left-hand side.
And a person like Freud, who was a half-baked man,
himself was a complicated person
- he had bad relation with his own mother -
and who died of cancer,
and he practiced on the pathological cases.
Pathos means suffering.
So all left-sided diseases
which are, which were very few in those days,
and he generalized it
and he propagated his Freudian theories.
He was given a higher position than that of Christ.
Maybe the Christianity was going on the other side
of putting too much restrictions,
calling human beings "sinners".
Whatever may be the reason
- one side the dogma another side the licentiousness -
both are wrong, both are self-destructive
and they are not going to give you any help.
And these two things acted upon the Western people more,
and they got lost into the left side.
To go to the extreme they started taking drugs,
and now the Aids.
In Sahaja Yoga what happens that your attention comes to the center.
You come on the parasympathetic nervous system.
You can see like this My attention is supposing,
is going this side and something pushes it upward like that.
So, when the Kundalini rises
She brings your attention collected from everywhere,
brings it upward and pierces through your fontanel bone area.
But also we have very many right-sided people.
They went in other countries and tried to dominate them.
I sometimes say thank God Columbus
did not come to India, otherwise I would not have been here.
He went to America and finished off all of them.
So this is the right-sidedness when we destroy others.
In that we have a kind of a ego ,
we think we are better than others.
This is falsehood.
God has not created anybody higher or lower.
God created only one world and human beings.
Only according to the climate we are varied -
we are different from each other.
And variety is so important
otherwise we'd all would be just the same,
like military regime of human beings,
or maybe like robots.
But He made us so separate and different
because we bring beauty in this world.
That life is interesting.
One leaf of a tree is not just the same as another leaf.
Just see the tremendous work of art.
In the same artistic way
He has created human beings in different manners.
But we think we are different,
they are different - this is our own conditioning.
These are all flowers on one tree.
But we haven't got the sense of collective
that's why we think like that.
We cannot feel the connection with others.
It's like you may form a club.
Like you have club of people who use fork and spoon
in a different manner.
There are all sorts of funny clubs.
We try to club together,
artificially.
Whatever is artificially we are doing exists in reality also.
We are part and parcel of one whole.
The microcosm belongs to the macrocosm, no doubt,
but it's not the reality with us yet.
It's just an idea.
So under anything you can have a league
- like somebody has a "red hair league" -
and then we try to classify them.
It's all so artificial and so stupid.
You are part and parcel of the whole
and you cannot classify yourself as separate.
Like this hand and this hand belongs to this body.
Now if this hand wants to soothe the other hand
is it doing any obligation on this hand?
So after Realization you feel who is the other?
We don't aggress with our hands our nose, do we?
We don't put our finger into our eyes to aggress it, do we?
Because the eye is whiter than the finger
- do we put our finger into it?
All this aggressiveness is that stupid.
If you are aggressing each other you are aggressing the whole.
Anywhere you try to do that, you harm the other part of the whole.
Then we start having organization for the whole-
The Whole World International Organization - this and that.
But the people inside that, are they collectively conscious?
Is that their inner understanding
on their central nervous system that other doesn't exist?
So this problem also gets solved after Sahaja Yoga.
You forget that you are only a Frenchman and nothing more.
Like a drop falls into the ocean and becomes the ocean
the heart of a Sahaja Yogi becomes so great.
He doesn't see the color of your skin,
color of your hair or your body.
He doesn't see how you sit and talk, what language you know.
He just sees "do you know the language of love?",
of pure love, of Divine love, of vibrations.
He talks in the terminology of vibrations,
of different centers.
That's what happened to the disciples of Christ,
of they started talking in the language of chakras,
and started moving their hands
to raise the Kundalini of other people.
But how this one is also now misused!
They started a religion everywhere where a person gets possessed.
Even in Hindu religion we have people going to the temple
and get possessed and saying, "ho, ho, ho", like that
- stupid people.
And they say that Goddess has come in their body.
Mostly they are maid-servants.
That Goddess must have some brains to go into these people
and all the time they go on making gestures
of a such a ridiculous nature.
It's not only there, it's happening in all religions.
Even among Catholics you find the charisma, charismatic.
Same thing, it is the same thing, it's the possession.
Then the Pentecostals now,
they are going to Guatemala to poor- these poor people,
are getting them possessed.
SY - They are going to?
Guatemala to get them possessed - all these Pentecostals
and they all becoming abnormal people crying, weeping, so annoying.
They look so miserable.
So it is a mass mesmerism.
Is it religion?
They said, "No, we have become like disciples of Christ."
They are not even in their own senses.
We had an interesting thing in India once,
in a village, Indian village.
We had a Pentecostal visitor from America.
And we have a Pentecostal church in villages.
And they had given a notice to the teachers saying that
"If you don't get the blessings of the Holy Ghost this Sunday
you will have to give up the job".
And the blessing of the Holy Ghost means you go mad.
You just go on screaming, shouting, going into gesticulations,
all kinds of funny actions.
Now this fellow had no moral courage to act
this teacher, poor thing,
had no moral courage to act like a Holy Ghost's blessing.
But he was worried about his job, you see.
So, when the sermon was over he got into a big fright,
and he caught hold of that American old lady
and put her into a round and round and round and round
and saying words in our language,
"You see, now you dance my lady, you dance my lady"
and the old lady got exhausted and she fainted.
But the surprising thing is
that the gentleman got confirmed as a Pentecostal and got his job.
All this kind of stupidity brings bad name to God.
This is not God.
God makes you a righteous, virtuous, sensible, dignified person.
He gives you a very subtle sense of humor
and a very magnetic personality which is very enjoyable.
He doesn't make a fool out of you, He doesn't make you insane
that you land up in a lunatic asylum.
We've got Christ before us.
We've got real gurus
who were real, not these fake ones in the market,
real gurus, whose lives you can see how sensible they were.
How powerful they were,
and what they achieved,
how they loved the world, created peace,
how they gave proper laws and regulations to the whole world.
Even sometimes people criticized them
but they do not know, what is the essence behind their life.
Say for example people say, Mohammad Sahab married so many times.
Because at that time they were on war path,
people were killing them and there were hardly young people left
to be married to ladies.
But Mohammad Sahab did not believe in prostitution
and extra-marital relationships.
So He said "Whatever it is, you marry".
In America people said "We don't like Mohammad Sahab,
because He insists on marriage,
and we want to have an experience of sex before marriage".
I said, "Absurd why do you want to have an experience
before marriage"?
Supposing you have to shift to a house do you say,
"I must have an experience of the house before I go there"?
But now the situation is different after
AIDS have shown their teeth.
They want now people to have virgin husbands
and virgin wives.
They want to have men and women who are pure.
They may not talk about it but they are in a great danger.
And as you know that I'm not afraid of anyone,
and I very frankly told them in the year 1973
that if they don't give up these nonsensical ideas about sex,
they are going to have a horrible disease.
And they got very angry with Me
and nobody would come to Sahaja Yoga
but they wanted to go to all the false gurus,
paying them lots of money.
Also they didn't like Me because I said, "You can't pay Me",
because I could not satisfy their ego.
But today is different.
They realize that I had the real concern for their good.
When this Kundalini rises within you
then you see the chakra, the red chakra down below
which is called as the Mooladhara,
is the center of your innocence.
Kundalini doesn't go through that.
That chakra is below it.
So one has to understand
that to achieve God you don't have to go to sex.
There were another type of gurus who came
to say you must take to sex, mass sex to go to God.
What happens to the brains of people,
when they hear such stupid ideologies!
If that is the case, all animals must go to Heavens first,
before than human beings.
If this kind of a nonsense is good
then why is it people get into diseases?
The another side is that you shouldn't have any sex.
This is absurd.
It's a natural thing which one must have
in a very sane and a healthy manner.
It's like saying you don't eat food at all and you'll go to God.
If you fast then you'll go to God immediately.
I mean there are many people who are fasting
in this world because they haven't got sufficient food.
They must have all gone to God immediately.
In Ethyopia you have so many people who died of starvation.
Are they gone to God?
So (the) another side of it is also another extreme of a nonsense.
And both these things have never helped us.
Once you are a Spirit
you become completely in control of yourself.
No temptations can invade you,
no one can dominate you
nor you dominate anyone.
You respect the privacy and
the liberty of another person as you respect yours.
In this we have no sense of privacy and no self-respect.
We have something very private and secret with us,
which should not be shared on the street and the roads.
People just want to take advantage
and want to make you into an animal or into a sex point.
You are a human being above all the creation of the world.
You are not animals.
You don't have to learn anything from animals.
They have to learn from you if they have to evolve.
You must assume your own powers as Spirit
and you can see here clearly that the Kundalini rises
and without any guidance
from anything else but the Mooladhara,
the center of innocence.
That's an eternal childhood, the innocence within us,
that's something eternal that does not die.
It may sleep off
but is awakened as soon as your Kundalini rises.
That is the reason why Christ did not die.
Because He is the incarnation of that innocence.
And innocence is the first thing that was created
and that is the first center in which we have been built.
SY: - Bathed?
SM:- Built.
That's our blessing.
That's what is the biggest auspicious thing we have.
The Kundalini rising itself will give you back your innocence.
It will be awakened
and you will know what you have so respectable within you.
You will develop your self-respect,
and your security,
and all the courage that is needed,
through this power of Divine love.
You have to know that the subject is too vast
and I must have given thousands of lectures
in the West in English language also
and many more in India.
So, in these two days I cannot go too far.
But when you get your Realization you become the knowledge.
And you become the joy.
But one has to understand that it is a collective growth,
like on a tree,
there are many leaves,
and are nourished by the sap of the tree.
Supposing one leaf wants to be separated,
then a bark develops between the tree and the leaf.
It happens in the autumn,
and the leaf falls off.
So you have to keep to the collective to grow together.
Many people who get Realization stay away from the collective,
and say, "Mother, we love you very much. We had your photograph,
we were meditating, still we got cancer."
You have to have nourishment all the time.
You have to be collective.
Firstly, as we don't take money, we don't have
very big palatial places for you to come in.
We have humble houses where you can come and meet everyone,
and become a part and parcel of the whole,
and develop yourself.
You should forget you come from a rich family
or you are a very big personality. Forget all that.
Here you are a yogi.
You have entered into the Kingdom of God,
and all of you are part and parcel of the whole,
and all these ideas of ego must go.
All these ideas that I am something, will disappear.
Then we'll have a new type of humanity
which will have no wars, no hatred,
but would be completely bathed
in the beauty of bliss, of Divine love.
You'll have no problems with your children, with your families
and you'll reside into the calmness
and the beauty and glory of Divinity.
That has to come,
that's, is there already coming.
Please, you're invited.
Thank you very much.